Update clustering module docs (#228)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses: optional-clustering-analysis/README.md

This directory includes a clustering analysis workflow that can help users identify the optimal clustering method and parameters for each library in their dataset. 
Libraries are unique, which means that the optimal clustering is likely to be library-dependent.
The clustering analysis workflow provided here can be used to explore different methods of clustering and test a range of parameter values for given graph-based clustering methods in order to identify the optimal clustering for each library.

We evaluate the clustering results across each of the parameters tested by looking at the following measures:

> 1. **Cluster purity** - looks at each cell as the proportion of neighboring cells that are assigned to the same cluster, with a range of 0 to 1. Well-separated clusters should show little overlap between member and neighboring cells, and therefore high purity values for all member cells.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Cluster purity** - The cluster purity is calculated for each cell as the proportion of neighboring cells that are assigned to the same cluster, with a range of 0 to 1. Well-separated clusters should show little overlap between member and neighboring cells, and therefore high purity values for all member cells.
```
Just adding some clarifying language here.

> 2. **Silhouette width** - looks at how well-separated each of the clusters are, with a range of -1 to 1. For each cell, the average distance to all cells in the same cluster and the average distance to all cells in another cluster, are calculated. The silhouette width for each cell is defined as the difference between these two values divided by their maximum. Therefore, cells will ideally have large positive silhouette widths, as this would mean that the cells of one cluster are well-separated from other clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Silhouette width** - Silhouette width is calculated for each cell across clusters and measures how well-separated each of the clusters are, with a range of -1 to 1. For each cell, the average distance to all cells in the same cluster and the average distance to all cells in another cluster, are calculated. The silhouette width for each cell is defined as the difference between these two values divided by their maximum distance. Therefore, cells will ideally have large positive silhouette widths, as this would mean that the cells of one cluster are well-separated from other clusters.
```

> 3. **Cluster stability** - looks at the stability of the clustering results associated with each of the clustering parameters. Here, cells within each dataset are sampled using bootstrapping and the sampled cells are re-clustered. The new clustering assignments are compared to the original assignment by obtaining an adjusted rand index, and this process is repeated 20 times. Clustering results with high stability would reveal that clustering after each bootstrap replicate is consistent with the original clustering results. We use summary adjusted Rand Index (ARI) values in the plots below to represent the average calculated cluster stability values. The range here is 0 to 1, where stable clusters have values closer to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Cluster stability** - The stability of the clustering results associated with each of the clustering parameters tested is also reported. Here, cells within each dataset are sampled using bootstrapping and the sampled cells are re-clustered. The new clustering assignments are compared to the original assignment by obtaining an adjusted rand index, and this process is repeated 20 times. Clustering results with high stability would reveal that clustering after each bootstrap replicate is consistent with the original clustering results. We use summary adjusted Rand Index (ARI) values in the plots shown in the clustering report output by the workflow to represent the average calculated cluster stability values. The range here is 0 to 1, where stable clusters have values closer to 1.
```

- [Expected output](#expected-output)
- [Running the workflow](#running-the-workflow)
  - [Project-specific parameters](#project-specific-parameters)
  - [Clustering parameters](#clustering-parameters)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Analysis overview

There are two main steps of this clustering analysis workflow:

1. **Cluster Calculations**: clustering results are calculated for the provided type(s) of graph-based clustering, and range of nearest neighbor values.
Cluster validity and stability results are also calculated.
2. **Cluster Plots**: once clustering results are calculated and stored in the `SingleCellExperiment` object, the results from each of the clustering methods tested are displayed in a UMAP plot.

> Additionally, metrics associated with each of the clustering results such as silhouette width, cluster purity, and cluster stability are calculated and plotted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, metrics associated with each of the clustering results such as silhouette width, cluster purity, and cluster stability (as described above) are calculated and plotted.
```

- [Expected output](#expected-output)
- [Running the workflow](#running-the-workflow)
  - [Project-specific parameters](#project-specific-parameters)
  - [Clustering parameters](#clustering-parameters)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Analysis overview

There are two main steps of this clustering analysis workflow:

> 1. **Cluster Calculations**: clustering results are calculated for the provided type(s) of graph-based clustering, and range of nearest neighbor values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Cluster Calculations**: Clustering results are calculated for the provided type(s) of graph-based clustering, and range of nearest neighbor values.
```

Cluster validity and stability results are also calculated.

> 2. **Cluster Plots**: once clustering results are calculated and stored in the `SingleCellExperiment` object, the results from each of the clustering methods tested are displayed in a UMAP plot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Cluster Plots**: Once clustering results are calculated and stored in the `SingleCellExperiment` object, the results from each of the clustering methods tested are displayed in a UMAP plot.
```

Additionally, metrics associated with each of the clustering results such as silhouette width, cluster purity, and cluster stability (as described above) are calculated and plotted.
The plots are displayed in a html report for ease of reference.

> **Note** that the same [software requirements for the core workflow](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/tree/development#3-additional-dependencies) are also required for this clustering workflow.

Reviewer 2: Missed this link first time around since it wasn't a diff in this PR, but we should make it relative too:

`https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/tree/development#3-additional-dependencies` --> `../README.md#3-additional-dependencies`

To run this workflow, you will need to provide:

1. The RDS file containing the [output `SingleCellExperiment` object](../README.md#expected-output) from the core dowstream analyses workflow.

> 2. A project metadata tab-separated value (TSV) file containing relevant information about your data necessary for processing, the same metadata file used in the core workflow can be used here (see more on this in the ["Metadata file format" section](../README.md#metadata-file-format) and an example of this metadata file [here](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/main/project-metadata/example-library-metadata.tsv))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A project metadata tab-separated value (TSV) file containing relevant information about your data necessary for processing, the same metadata file used in the core workflow should be used here (see more on this in the ["Metadata file format" section](../README.md#metadata-file-format) and an example of this metadata file [here](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/main/project-metadata/example-library-metadata.tsv))
```
I think we want to be explicit that the exact metadata file path is required.

> 2. A project metadata tab-separated value (TSV) file containing relevant information about your data necessary for processing, the same metadata file used in the core workflow should be used here (see more on this in the ["Metadata file format" section](../README.md#metadata-file-format) and an example of this metadata file [here](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/main/project-metadata/example-library-metadata.tsv)).

Reviewer 2: Noting we still have a full link here but should be fine since `main` branch.

Author: Yeah I was torn on leaving it since it is pointing to the `main` branch but changed anyway in https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/pull/228/commits/48d67dabb360ebd4fb53b1e01a93987c5257067f!

1. The RDS file containing the [output `SingleCellExperiment` object](../README.md#expected-output) from the core dowstream analyses workflow.

> 2. The [`library_id`](../README.md#metadata-file-format) associated with the `SingleCellExperiment` object.

Reviewer: I think what we actually need here instead of `library_id` is the metadata file correct? Because we need the `library_id` and `filtering_method` that's read in from the metadata file? https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/45955da9ecea4a4ac9ef4b591245f62acf0ce61a/cluster.snakefile#L7-L8

For example, if you would like a range of `5:25` to be tested in increments of 5 (as in, `5, 10, 15, 20, 25`), you will provide `nearest_neighbors_min` = 5, `nearest_neighbors_max` = 25, and `nearest_neighbors_increment` = 5.

## Expected output

For each provided `SingleCellExperiment` RDS file and associated `library_id`, the workflow will return five files in the same directory where the inputted RDS file is stored:

1. The `SingleCellExperiment` RDS file containing the added clustering results that were calculated in the first step of the worflow.
2. The `_clustering_report.html` file, which is the summary html report with plots containing the clustering results.
3. A `_clustering_all_validity_stats.tsv` file with all of the calculated cluster validity statistics.
4. A `_clustering_summary_validity_stats.tsv` file with the cluster validity stats averaged across each cluster assignment.
5. A `_clustering_summary_stability_stats.tsv` file with the average adjusted Rand Index (ARI) values across each cluster assignment.

> The TSV files will be saved in a subdirectory called `{library_id}_{filtering_method}_clustering_stats/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TSV files will be saved in a subdirectory called `{library_id}_{filtering_method}_clustering_stats/`, where both the `{library_id}` and `{filtering_method}` are obtained from the input metadata file. 
```

| `results_dir` | relative path to the directory where output files will be stored (use the same `results_dir` used in the prerequisite core workflow) |
| `project_metadata` | relative path to your specific project metadata TSV file (use the same `project_metadata` used in the prerequisite core workflow) |

> |[View Config File](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/development/config/config.yaml)|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|[View Config File](../config/config.yaml)|
```

**Note:**  If you did not install dependencies [with conda via snakemake](../README.md#snakemakeconda-installation), you will need to remove the `--use-conda` flag.

### Clustering parameters

> We have provided an additional [configuration file](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/configuration.html), `config/cluster_config.yaml` which sets the defaults for all parameters needed to run the clustering workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have provided an additional [configuration file](https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/configuration.html), `config/cluster_config.yaml` which sets the defaults for all parameters needed to run the clustering workflow.
It is not required to alter these parameters to run the workflow, but if you would like to change the type of clustering or range of nearest neighbor parameters, this is done by changing these parameters. 
```
I'm not crazy about this exact wording, but I just want to emphasize that you don't need to use these parameters unless you want to explore other options so feel free to change this!

The parameters found in the `config/cluster_config.yaml` file can be optionally modified and are as follows:

| Parameter        | Description | Default value |
|------------------|-------------|---------------|

> | `optional_cluster_types` | a comma-separated list of graph-based clustering type(s), values can be include "louvain" and/or "walktrap" (see more on these graph-based clustering methods in this [Community Detection Algorithms article](https://towardsdatascience.com/community-detection-algorithms-9bd8951e7dae)) | "louvain,walktrap" |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `optional_cluster_types` | a comma-separated list of graph-based clustering type(s), options include "louvain" and/or "walktrap" (see more on these graph-based clustering methods in this [Community Detection Algorithms article](https://towardsdatascience.com/community-detection-algorithms-9bd8951e7dae)) | "louvain,walktrap" |
```

The parameters found in the `config/cluster_config.yaml` file can be optionally modified and are as follows:

| Parameter        | Description | Default value |
|------------------|-------------|---------------|
| `optional_cluster_types` | a comma-separated list of graph-based clustering type(s), options include "louvain" and/or "walktrap" (see more on these graph-based clustering methods in this [Community Detection Algorithms article](https://towardsdatascience.com/community-detection-algorithms-9bd8951e7dae)) | "louvain,walktrap" |
| `nearest_neighbors_min` | the minimum value to use for a range of neareast neighbors values for exploration | 5 |
| `nearest_neighbors_max` | the maximum value to use for a range of neareast neighbors values for exploration | 25 |
| `nearest_neighbors_increment` | the increment to use when implementing the range number of nearest neighbors for cluster stats (e.g. a value of 5 with min of 5 and max of 25 will test the nearest neighbors values of 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25) | 5 |
| `overwrite_results` | a binary value indicating whether or not to overwrite any existing clustering results | `TRUE` |

> |[View Clustering Config File](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/scpca-downstream-analyses/blob/development/config/cluster_config.yaml)|

Reviewer 2: This link is pointing to `development` branch, which will work once this is merged, but not when we merge that branch into `main`. So again, we probably want relative links.
